Welcome back.
Let's code our own bubble sort algorithm.
I'm going to create a function called Bubble sort that's going to take in an array and I have an array
up here for us of these numbers.
And ideally when we enter this array into this function it spits out a sorted array.
And based on the animation that we saw we ideally start from the beginning compare first and second
item swap out the items.
If the left one is larger than the right and keep going keep going keep going until the largest item
ends up in the last index and then we loop over things again.
The first thing I want to do is say that I'll just create a variable so I don't have to keep repeating
myself all get array dot lengthier shall be the length of this item which should be 10 I believe 1 2
3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10.
You love it.
Never mind to learn and in here we'll do a for loop and we'll say let I.
The cost is 0 which will be the first index of the array.
I is less than lenth.
Plus plus and within here we grab the first item.
We now want to compare it to 44 and so on and so forth we should know this by now.
We want to add another for loop J.
It's going to be called 0.
J is going to be less than lenth and we'll say J plus plus now in here we'll say that if our RE J card
index of 0.
So that is ninety nine is greater than Auray J plus 1.
That is 44.
So if ninety nine is greater than 44 in the first loop we'll say
swapped numbers.
So we can simply do that by saying creating a temporary variable that holds array a J which the first
pass will be ninety nine and give the first index of 0 to Array.
J plus 44 or plus 1 which is 44 and 99.
Now goes into the second index.
So that means Ray J plus 1 is going to equal a ray j.
You might need to pause the video to really understand this.
But all we're doing is just swapping numbers.
If the left hand side is bigger than the right hand side and once that is done we increment J to 1 so
that we compare index of 1 and 2 and then we compare index of 2 and 3 3 and 4 4 or 5 until we bubble
things up.
And then we go to the top and compared the items again and the out are for the let's see if this works.
Oh and I just realized this.
J.
Should be Tampere.
So remember ninety nine.
We placed it into a temporary variable and assigning it to the index to the right so we round bubble
sort.
Now we'll say numbers and we'll console log numbers to see if it's sorted if I hit Ron.
Causal log numbers make sure I can spell.
Let's say I run I look at the our list is now sorted.
That was bubble sort.
And as you can hear we have two nested for loops giving us all of the end square but we're not really
holding variables to another data structure or holding the numbers into other data structures.
So the space complexity is all of one as we can see in our big-O Chichi bubble sort is probably not
the best algorithm although it has good space complexity.
You can use the code that Alief for you and this lesson to play around with.
But for now let's go on to our next sorting algorithm.
Congratulations you've just completed your first sorting algorithm.
But we have more to go.
So let's go to the next one.